[Music]
so when you're driving you get a green
light
everywhere except japan the traffic
light is actually blue there
the problem is purely linguistic old
japanese had the same word
ao for blue and green even though modern
japanese has a separate word for green
the linguists objected and the
government left the ao color for the
traffic light
it's technically green but it's the
blueish shade possible
so we perceive it as blue
if you ever travel across japan you'll
definitely see
noren fabric hangings that look like
curtains before the entrance to
restaurants and stores
you can tell if the store is open just
looking at the norin
if they're hung at the doors it means
this place is open
if there are no curtains sorry the place
isn't working
look for another one the name of the
place is usually written across the
north
the dirtier it is the better just
kidding
the japanese say that if this curtain's
dirty it means
there are a lot of customers that
constantly touch the nord when they
enter
japanese are very punctual and in this
country
everything's on time no matter if it's
people who need to come to a meeting
or public transport the trains are so
punctual that if they have a minute's
delay
the company will provide you with a
special certificate to prove to your
boss
your lateness wasn't your fault there
are some drawbacks about japanese trains
though
some cars in tokyo metro are so packed
sometimes
that metro staff aka professional
pushers
come to help people squeeze into that
train they literally
shove people onto busy trains and help
the passengers travel safely
japanese people seem to be obsessed with
glasses
well there doesn't seem to be any
specific explanation for this one
they just do it for pleasure sunglasses
as well as regular glasses
can be an integral part of your look as
a cool accessory
anyway they're usually a prescription
and most people wear them because of
short-sightedness
public toilet experience may be a
challenge for you
but not if you're in japan there's
always music in the bathrooms
bidet is quite a regular thing for this
country too
the toilets look high-tech and they
really are
in fact over 80 percent of japanese
households have a bidet toilet
not only are they super sanitary but
they also save
water using only one gallon per flush
in regular toilets it takes about three
gallons
if you're an introvert and love
traveling alone japan is a top
destination for you
in this country it's totally okay to eat
out enjoying your own company
for introverts who may feel lonely now
and again
there are special cafes that feature
cuddling services
in some restaurants in japan water is
free which is no real surprise
the surprise comes when you're offered
some free tea
waiters usually bring you some
traditional tea while you're waiting for
your order
another unusual thing about japanese
restaurants
is that you're not supposed to leave
tips people can even take a fence if you
do so
good service is considered to be a
standard and it's already included in
your order
so hey enjoy your meal talking about
japanese food and i'm getting hungry
chopsticks are probably the first thing
that comes to your mind
still a real japanese dining experience
has
more ways of eating you're not going to
look impolite if you literally drink
your miso soup right from the bowl
if the bowl is so much bigger than the
one from ezo and the broth has noodles
and other ingredients
don't be afraid to slurp this ramen away
japanese are cool with slurping there's
one food hack for a japanese meal
if you struggle a lot with chopsticks
especially eating
rice bring the bowl closer to your mouth
if the plate is pretty large it's not
recommended to pick it up
if you still struggle it's okay to ask
for a spoon
unless the place you're dining in is
traditional and
expensive eating fruit in japan can be
quite expensive
some fruit are exported from far away
which explains the price
local farmers do their best to grow
perfect impeccable fruit
that's why peaches can cost up to 3 000
yen
which is about 300 bucks hey how about a
apple yeah rather pricey but it's washed
with honey
and hand picked to make sure there are
no blemishes
plus these are one of the world's
largest varieties of apples
some of them weighing up to two pounds
japanese eat
rice anytime no matter if it's breakfast
lunch or dinner
another incredible fact about their food
is that their sweets
aren't actually sweet at all alright not
sweets but
rather desserts traditional japanese
desserts are usually made of chestnuts
matcha tea or rice flour they can even
cook many desserts such as brownies
puddings and chocolate bites using a
special type of beans called azuki
as the main ingredient people in japan
believe that the dessert is good quality
if it's not sweet japanese food is crazy
combining a bunch of unusual flavors in
regular things
hey how about ice cream choose the
flavor there are
potato miso wasabi
soy and many other flavors for those who
like it extreme
there's even raw horse meat ice cream
that's really good horse yeah right
these tastes are not very common for the
japanese either though
some other unusual foods feature hot
dogs with noodles instead of sausage
or unagi cola yeah it's like eel plus
cola and if that's not enough you can
also find
chocolate chip ramen in japan you can't
beat it
japanese always take their shoes off
when they enter the house
they even have multiple slippers for
example toilet slippers
don't come inside a japanese house with
your shoes on it's very
impolite most cultures
usually use handshakes for greetings but
in japan
people mostly use boughs for this
purpose the more times and the deeper
you bow
the more respect you show to a person
there's a catch though
if you bow too deep it could be
offensive bows are acceptable everywhere
supermarket workplace and even among
friends
sometimes getting connected working on
something on a train
can be next to impossible because of the
noise level
in japan nothing can distract you on a
train
so you can even work people usually
don't even answer the phone there
still the japanese aren't quiet all the
time bars make a big part of the
japanese everyday culture
so it's pretty loud there watermelons
are round right
well not in japan japanese farmers have
a special technique
for growing square watermelons they grow
it in a special container
this way they can fit into a fridge
easier some other shapes are available
for example the fruit can be triangular
or heart-shaped
the only drawback is that such fruits
are quite pricey
turning trained seeds in japanese trains
are super convenient
you can make a square if you travel in a
group of friends
you can adjust your seat to the
direction of the train
if you simply don't like your travel
companions you can just
turn around too you will probably
never see a janitor in japan because
students have to clean up the schools
by themselves japanese students even
serve lunch
plus besides a regular school cleaning
they will go out now and again
and clean up the neighborhood the
japanese never stop inventing
and one of their recent innovations is
their non-melting ice cream
just imagine you casually walk in the
scorching sun
it's 90 degrees outside and you're
enjoying your ice cream
not being afraid of staining your shirt
the secret ingredient is
polyphenol extracted from strawberries
that prevents oils and water from
separating
preserving the ice cream shape in japan
with such an abundance of vending
machines you seem to be likely to buy
anything you want
without ever going to a store vending
machines sell everything from
food to canned bread yeah it exists
super spicy snacks with warning
disclaimers on the machine
and even toys anyways the japanese
themselves
are more likely to grab a quick snack in
a store instead of those machines
long ago japanese women would blacken
their teeth instead of whitening
pitch black objects were a kind of
beauty standard
to dye the teeth black they would use
iron filing dissolved in vinegar
plus some tea powder and finally if you
want to wish someone a good day in japan
do you say have a bidet no probably not